In this video, we're going to create that second middleware.
The goal of this middleware is to reject any incoming request if the user is not logged in.
So it's going to be very simple in nature.
All we have to do, since we already put that other one together, is take a look at the recurrent user
property.
If recurrent user is not defined, that means the user is not logged in.
So we are going to reject the request or essentially respond with an error.
So let's get started on that middleware right away because it's going to be pretty easy to put together.
All right, so back over here.
I'm going to find my middle wears directory and I'll make a new file inside there called Require Offsets.
Then inside of here at the very top, once again we will import request, response and next function
from Express.
I'll then put together a function called require off.
And once again, for the argument list, we'll put in a wreck of request.
RAZ response and next.
Next function.
So we are going to really make a big assumption here.
We're going to assume that we will never use the required auth middleware without previously running
the current user middleware.
So in other words, by the time this request shows up inside of require auth, we should have already
checked to see if there is a JSON web token present.
We should have already attempted to decode it and set it on the correct current user property.
So again, if recurrent user is not defined, that means we need to reject this request and respond
with an error so we can do something like if there is no recurrent user property.
Then we should return early.
And we can do something like a resend or a one.
A for one, you will recall means forbidden.
And the weekend.
Excuse me, that should be a status.
And then we could send back something.
It looks like our common air structure.
Remember that?
Common air structure is that structure.
We encoded it in all those custom ears.
Now, as soon as I start looking at this, we're kind of going back to that same similar scenario when
we were talking about all those custom air things where we are trying to manually write out how to respond
or how to handle some kind of air condition.
So as soon as I see this right here, I think maybe rather than trying to manually write out the response
right here, maybe you would make a lot more sense to create yet another custom air inside of our project
to handle any time a user tries to access some kind of resource that they are not authorized to access.
So in other words, long story short, let's create another custom air to handle this response or the
case in which a user is trying to access a route that they do not have access to.
So inside of my ears directory, I'm going to make a new file.
Called not authorized air ducts.
So we're going to create yet another custom error inside of here.
Remember to do so we will import custom air at the top from.
Customer.
We will then create an export a class we're going to call it not authorized air and it's going to be
extending custom air.
Once again, TypeScript is going to guide us and how to implement this.
So we need to implement that serialized error method and the status code method as well.
So for the status code, we probably want a status code of 401, which in HTTP parlance means, hey,
you're not authorized or you are forbidden from accessing this.
We can then put on the method of serialize errors.
And recall that if we mouse over that thing, we will be told that we have to return an array of objects
where each object has a message and possibly a field.
So in our case, we'll just send back a hard coded message, something that says, Hey, you are not
authorized.
So I will return an array of objects that has a message property and I'll put inside.
They're not authorized.
Okay.
Last thing we're going to put inside of here is a constructor once again.
Remember, we are just putting in the constructor to set up that set prototype of thing that is required
because we are ultimately extending a built in class.
So I'll put in a constructor.
I will call super.
Now we'll do an object set prototype of.
This.
And not.
Authorized air prototype.
You'll notice that we have an air around our super color right here.
That is because the parent constructor of Custom Air expects to be called with some message or some
kind of string describing exactly what went wrong.
So we can just use the same string we use down here.
We can put in something like not authorized.
Okay.
So there's our customer.
So let's save this file.
We'll then go back over to the require off middleware.
And again, rather than throwing or trying to send back some manual response right here, we can instead
just throw that error that we had just created and our error handling middleware will take care of everything
from there.
So at the top we will import not authorized air.
From Aires.
And then, rather than returning right there, we can throw a new, not authorized air.
Now, assuming that the user is logged in, if they are logged in and they get past this if statement,
we want to allow the user to continue on to the next middleware or possibly our actual root handling
function.
So if they get past that statement, we will just call the next function and that should be it.
All right, let's save this.
Now, we don't have any route handlers inside of this app that need to have some kind of require off
middleware on them.
So we're going to very temporarily apply it to the current user middleware or assuming the current user
route handler.
So we are going to temporarily make sure that you must be logged in in order to access current user.
So I'm going to go and find that current user route handler.
At the very top, I will import the middleware we just created.
So require off.
From middle wears require auth.
And then remember, our big assumption here is that we are always going to run require auth right after
using current user.
Or I shouldn't say right after, but at some point after current user.
So I will put in require auth like so.
All right, so let's save this.
Then we can go back over to Postman and test it out.
Now, at present, I am signed in inside a postman.
So if I send this request off to get current user right now, it should still succeed.
Yep, definitely does.
But if I go over to that third tab where I can't log out, so I'll send that in.
So now I'm no longer signed into the application.
If I now try to print out current user again, I should get an error back something that says Sorry,
you can't access this route because you are not logged in, so I will send this.
And sure enough, there we go.
So I get back an error with the message of not authorized.
All right, fantastic.
So we've now got these two utility middle wears put together that we're probably going to need to use
at some point in time, even if we don't really need them inside of our service just yet.
Now back inside of current user, the route handler current user, I am going to delete the require
off middleware right there because again we were just doing a very quick test and I will delete require
auth right there and you know, we're not using JWT inside of you anymore, so I'll delete that as well.
All right, that's it.
Well, we've got those two utility middle wears put together.
And I think overall, our entire service is now in a pretty good state.
So let's take a quick pause right here and figure out exactly what we need to do next.